---
title: a still small voice
layout: post 
---

p. When I’m not blogging, I miss it; this leads me to start a new blog, thinking I’ll be more committed.  Yet, when I am blogging it feels like a burden, which is why it’s always been a short lived discipline in my life.  I think I stumbled upon an answer as to why I operate this way.

bq. ^17^ To Adam he said, “Because you listened to your wife and ate from the tree about which I commanded you, ‘You must not eat of it,’  ”Cursed is the ground because of you;  through painful toil you will eat of it all the days of your life. ^18^ It will produce thorns and thistles for you, and you will eat the plants of the field. ^19^ By the sweat of your brow you will eat your food until you return to the ground, since from it you were taken; for dust you are and to dust you will return.”

p. That’s from Genesis 3.  I heard it explained this week that my principle role in life, the trait I walk most easily in, as a man, is the role of Cultivator.  From these verses we find out that not only are ALL men cultivators, but everything they cultivate will rail against them.  This has begun to make so much sense to me.  At work I cultivate a half dozen things, I nurture and grow the several projects I work on, I cultivate relationships with my co-workers, I cultivate my own intellectual capital, etc.  At home I cultivate relationships with my roommates, neighbors, and community.  I cultivate my body, physically and mentally.  I cultivate my relationship with Madison.  I cultivate Madison.  The list continues, and not for a short while.

p. So what does this have to do with blogging?  Blogging helps me cultivate ideas, it helps me process what Gd is teaching me through the world, His creation.  But, blogging also rails against me, it seems silly, trite, and hardly worthwhile since it would be just as easy to write down these thoughts privately and not worry about diction and syntax.

p. But here I am.  Again.  Trying again, to cultivate a habit of forming ideas.  I don’t think it’ll stick this time.  I think like every other time, I’ll do it for a season, learn what Gd is teaching me in that season, and then I’ll fade away again.

p. Just because I’m a cultivator, doesn’t mean that, for me to be Gdly, everything I cultivate must endure.  Even the fields rise up and die off, providing their food and leaving the farmer a richer man than before.

