---
title: anxiety, fear, regret, and growth
layout: post 
---

p. I turned in my two weeks notice at "Factset":http://www.factset.com yesterday. Since that moment there hasn't been a smell, sight, or comment that hasn't triggered a special demarkation of thought. The last time I remember feeling this way was right before I left Austin to move to Connecitcut, to take the job at Factset. I tell people that I love change, when in reaility I love the idea of change. Change itself is heart wrenching. Please do not misinterpret me it's not difficult in the way most percieve something to be difficult, it's heart wrenching.  The only feeling I have to compare it to is that flood you feel when you realize you're parents are, like you, growing older and every moment you spend with them suddenly becomes a memory you can't let yourself forget. It's nearly an overwhelming feeling.

p. Since I made the decision to tell Factset that I was leaving, before actually telling them mind you, there have been four emotions swapping themselves out in favor of one another.

p. [*anxiety*] is tied to others. If I lived my life in a vaccum outside of peoples expectation's and the burden of responsibilities, I don't think *A* would affect me. As it is, there are expectations to meet: my parents, May, the colleagues I'm leaving, the managers I'm leaving, the people who are praying for me, and basically anyone who expects me to have completely thought this thing out, even though I don't feel like I always have; just to name a few.  There are responsibilities to manage: how will this affect my relationship with Gd? How will this affect my relationship with Madison? Is it a correct to take a job in NYC knowing full well that my life will continue to be lived in Connecticut? 

p. [*regret*], this is a difficult one to explain. I think most would be enticed to belive that I *R* my decsion to leave Factset. That's hardly it. I *R* leaving the small joys of my life at Factset, I fully expect these joys to be replaced in my new job, but still there's the interaction with coworkers, the work/life balance, the free lunches and the amazing benefits. Know that I'm a dead man walking at Factset, I find that those joys matter more to me, they're more enticing now, and I *R* leaving them. 

p. [*fear*] is the equal and opposite reaction to excitement. I'm truely excited to start something new, to engage in a new environment, and to learn from new people. Yet, there's  about the result of those same thoughts. What if I can't handle the commute? What if this company doesn't last more than six months? What if I flounder instead of flourish? What if I am pushing myself furthur from what I really want to become? *F* tempers excitement. I can be ready, I can be excited, but the possibility of failure isn't comforting. 

p. [*growth*] is not necessarily the suffix of change. It can be, but it's not guaranteed, not even a little bit. However, *G* is the product of introspection, self reflection, and gained understanding. I've always enjoyed learning about myself and others, and change is a match to my uneventful fire that forces me to understand my motivations. Thank Gd for that. 

::*edit*:: Between the time I started writing this post, and the time I actually posted it, the sentimality has all but faded and the anticipation of newness triumphs in my heart once again.
