---
title: nuwach; bend their tounge
layout: post
---

{% include nuwach.textile %}
Sin is born in our mind. It matures in our heart. It devours the weakness of our will. And while walking towards death, it holds our hand. It's not silent, it's not surprising, and it's not culpable. For myself, in nearly 12 years of faith, I've never upon opening my eyes in the morning been immediately assaulted by some new shackling sin.  No.  The sins that shackle me are the one's I feed, the one's I've nurtured, the one's I've willingly watched grow up in my heart.

A few days ago, on my way home from work, I listened to Matt Chandler explain that sin begets sin.  His preeminent example was that no Gd fearing husband accidentally cheats on their spouse.  Instead, he supported that that specific failure begins with a look, a comment, a lustful heart, and culminates at the decision to cheat, not actually at the act of cheating. For me that's where many of the following thoughts began.

bq. ^12^ Blessed is the man who remains steadfast under trial, for when he has stood the test he will receive the crown of life, which Gd has promised to those who love him.
^13^ Let no one say when he is tempted, “I am being tempted by Gd,” for Gd cannot be tempted with evil, and he himself tempts no one.
^14^ But each person is tempted when he is lured and enticed by his own desire.
^15^ Then desire when it has conceived gives birth to sin, and sin when it is fully grown brings forth death.

In light of what was said by Matt Chandler I remained engrossed with verses fourteen and fifteen, I was particularly seeking to understand the birth and development of sin in a believer's life. As always though, it's important to remember the context in which James was writing, for while these verses provide some of the understanding I was seeking, it's clear that this was not the understanding that James was attempting to provide. In the first twelve verses James explains how perseverance of the holy will and the endurance of difficulty lead to the 'crown of life'.  He follows by addressing the logical conclusion that a works based faith would reach: if Gd cares about my holiness, and the discipline of my will is necessary to achieve that holiness, then Gd must have sent me a trial, hardship, or “temptation” to give me an opportunity to grow into that holiness. His answer to that conclusion is in verse thirteen, he makes it known that all temptation is rooted in our own mind so that we have nothing to boast in.

Now I prayerfully believe this is the meaning of the scripture, the point to which I think James was writing. However, like I said at the outset, the comments by Chandler led me in search of the understanding of the cause, growth, and development of sin.  James, apart from his original argument seems to have opened that window and provided some of this understanding in the cited verses.

When I read verses fourteen and fifteen in isolation conclusions abound.  First off, there is a distinction between sin and temptation made that speaks to the idea that you can be tempted but still abstain from sin.  In conjunction with verse thirteen it is clear that sin begins a desire in our mind, and that that desire is not given by Gd. Second, sin like a child, has parents; one of those parents is the sinner's own desire, the other remains unnamed.  Third, there's a period of time in which sin is not fully grown and perhaps a time in which it has not yet brought forth death.

Now, a few thoughts about those conclusions.

* The fact that the second parent to sin remains unnamed is interesting, but somewhat inconsequential given the passage preceding verses.  The previous verse makes it clear that “he himself tempts no one”, so Gd can in now way be a parent of that sin.  Similarly any attempt to point anywhere look outside of one's self (towards others, circumstances, or otherwise) as the other parent to sin, is just shifting the blame.  In the end I'd argue that desire conceives sin with “our weak will”, our will that does not rely on Gd and does not run from sin.
* The fact that a believer can be tempted without actually committing sin feels like a breath of fresh suffocating air.  Fresh because I continually misunderstand this truth. I spend much of my vitality trying to avoid temptation altogether, and then when I fail to do that it's like I've already lost the battle which in a strange way encourages me to headlong into the sin. It's suffocating because facing temptation head on seems like such an insurmountable task, one I know only Gd can and has conquered on my behalf.
* Finally, if sin is born, if it grows, and if it doesn't lead to death until it's fully grown, then there must be a period of time before sin has fully rooted itself. If this is so, then through Gd there must be a period of earthly time (time in which you're still living on earth) where the believer can be healed of the sin that afflicts them.

This last point raises a question though, I'll conclude with some ideas attempting to answer it.

We're told elsewhere that a little leaven leavens the whole lump how can it be that sin which is not fully grown, does not lead to death?  I have no firm answers, but a few ideas.

* This verse is emphasizing the potential that sin has to grow.  Much like Chandler alluded to, sin starts as an idea, but leads physical actions, which result in other outward actions that eventually lead to full fledged habits which have the ability to destroy lives.
* A more straight forward reading may support the idea that sin does not cause death until after physical death.  Perhaps, we can say that sin does not fully give way to death until a non-believer dies and there's not hope of reconciliation to Gd.  As long as there is still time for a non-believer to repent of that sin, perhaps it has not fully given way to death yet.
* This verse is merely the antitheses of an earlier statement.  In the same way that steadfastness leads to the crown of life, sin leads to death.

One more time for emphasis.  Sin is born in our mind. It matures in our heart. It devours the weakness of our will. And while walking towards death, it holds our hand. It's not silent, it's not surprising, and it's not culpable.
