---
layout: post
title: caveman drawings - week three
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

Week three, and part of four for that matter, have come and gone and this continues to be a learning experience for me. The single biggest lesson I've learned is how much I relied on quick, easy, unhealthy food for nutrition -- not to mention how awful most of those foods taste in comparison to what I'm having now. Here's a brief run down of a few of the things I've made in the last ten days.

h3. 1. "Graeme's Meatloaf Mini's":http://nomnompaleo.com/post/22958282621/paleo-eats-5-12-12

p. These are about half way down the page, Madison and I made them a few nights ago for date night and paired them with some bacon roasted veggies. They were extremely good despite the fact that I forgot to season them with salt and pepper. I think a little more tomatoe sauce on my part could have added some flavor. The most surpising thing was how well the sweet potatoe substituted for bread crumbs.

h3. 2. "Avocado Curry Chicken Salad":http://cosmopolitanprimalgirl.wordpress.com/2011/03/13/curried-chicken-salad-wraps/

p. This was a Friday night concoction that Madison and I made out in the back yard (her kitchen was occupied). Anything that starts and ends with avocado is going to be good and these were no exception. The natural flavors were so good they even overcame my accidental usage of 1tbs of tumeric and 1tsp of curry powder.

p. On Friday we ate the filing wrapped in romaine hearts, but a few days later I repeated the recipe with raisens and walnuts and took it to lunch each day over a bed of spinach. Upon seeing the tastey dish one of my office mates asked who the chef was, and when I told him it was I, he told me I should marry myself. I would eat my cooking!

h3. 3. "Coconut Macaroons":http://www.elanaspantry.com/paleo-coconut-macaroons/

p. For every five successful dishes there's always a flop. The macaroons were the flop in my book, though we'd have to consult Madison for the expert opinion. We didn't have parchment paper, they didn't seem to hold together all that well, they take forever to harden, and they just tasted like a big ball of coconut. I really wasn't a huge fan but Madison took them home with her so hopefully she's enjoying them.

h3. 4. "CURRY!":http://everydaypaleo.com/2011/04/20/red-or-green-thai-curry/

p. Finally I was able to find some yellow curry paste (well actually some masaman curry paste) and make the dish I've been hoping to make since this whole thing started.

p. And let me tell you, it did not disapoint. 'Cracking the coconut' seemed to be the only gotcha in this recipe but even I couldn't mess that up. As is typical for me after I make something I like, the following day I went out and bought enough supplies to make a double portion to eat off for the next few days. If I like it once, I'll like it four times, right?

h3. 5. "Wilted Kale":http://www.myrecipes.com/recipe/wilted-kale-with-bacon-50400000110830/

p. This was probably the strangest dinner I had all week. I got home late from work one night, with little motivation to go to the grocery store, and very little protein in the fridge. What I did have was a giant tub of kale that I accidently purchased a week ago, thinking it was mixed greens. Not only was it a large tub but it was a wilting large tub.

p. In a desparate attempt to find someway to make it I googled 'wilted kale recipes' and found this little doozy. I didn't make it exactly like they do (sans cayanne, thyme, & broth) but basically bacon makes anything taste good. Bacon, onion, salt, pepper, lots of kale, apple cider vinegar, and some carrots made for a pretty good salad.

p. I was extremely proud of my ingenuity with this one.



