---
layout: post
title: caveman drawings - week two
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

My skills as a caveman are vastly improved. Pretty soon I'll be tearing into teradactyl hide with my bear teeth. No but seriously, operations wise (money, time, energy) I blew the lid of this diet. Food was good, I prepared it faster, I did better planning ahead, and even had a few backup meals prepared for those times I knew I wouldn't feel like cooking. The following are some observatinos from the week.

h3.  I was more addicted to processed sugar and sweets than I realized.

p.  Several years ago I broke the night time sweet craving. I don't consciesly remember doing it, but I haven't been a consistent ice cream, cereal, or chocolate eater since college. This week however, was a different story. Without fail everyday this week I found myself hankering for something sugary and sweet. I don't remember having these feelings last week but days eight through fourteen were marked by them. What's worse, is the paelo palette isn't really teaming with options to satisfy that urge. One night I ate a whole bunch of grapes, another night I tried dipping a banana in unsweeted cocoa (gross), finally I decided to give honey a try. A few slices of apple with a bit of honey is about the best subsitute I've found. May has taking a liking to frozen bananas with coconut and trail mix, but that's not really my thing.

h3.  If you think paleo friendly eating in is expensive, just wait until you eat out.

p.  Three times this week I found myself with others, far from a kitchen, and/or short on time and chose to dine out instead of make something. Mistake. Basically the only options are steak, chicken, and salad. Everything else generally seems to be covered in sauce, and I'm way to passive to be too specific when ordering. All of that in mind, steak isn't cheap and I eat so many greens as it is that the thought of ordering them while out is a difficult one to stomach.

h3.  Yellow curry paste is impossible to find.

p.  I live within 2 miles of 4 grocery stores and none of them carry yellow curry paste, including my Whole Foods and Trader Joes. I'm not sure if that's normal or not, but it's really kind of a bummer. I'd planned on making quite a few curry dishes this month and so far I haven't made any. #failwhale

h3.  Hunger is back and bloated'ness is a thing of the past.

p.  If you've known me for very long, you know that I've claimed that I don't get hungry. Before this trip I can't remember the last time I actually felt hunger pains, probably when I was eating on $1/day back in June of 2010. Typically I eat because it's time to eat, others are hungry, or I know I should. The paleo lifestyle has however changed this. I'm not consistently full, and I'm quite consistently hungry. I eat quite a bit but a few hours later I find myself desiring food, this has probably been the single most horrible thing about all of this. I hate feeling hungry, even if I have food to satisfy myself.

p.  On the flip side, I never feel bloated. I can eat plates and plates of food and not walk away sick to my stomach or bloated, or weighed down by indigestion. Many people have suggested this is due to the removal of dairy, whatever the reason I'm glad it's gone and I don't have to worry about it.

h3.  Most of us don't need the carbs we claim.

p.  This was perhaps the single most common question I got before doing this. "Where will I get carbs to source my active life". I'd first like to say that _most_ of us are not active enough to need carbs. If you're not training -- notice I didn't say excercising, there's a difference -- regularly then it's likely your body just doesn't need that much energy. I've been rock climbing three to four times a week and running a few miles at least once a week and I haven't felt any different from an energy standpoing. No better, no worse, and to be fair I ate a lot of carbs (mmmmm... pasta) before all this started.
