---
layout: post
title: essence of two
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

If you're one of the few people a month who visit this site, but don't actually know me, then you're probably unaware that as of August 18th, I'm no longer a bachelor. Er.. um.. I won't always be a bachelor you see.... cause I've how you say, gotten engaged. Hallelujah.

That, along with other legitimate and illegitimate ones, is the reason there haven't been any posts in a while, but that ends today. You see, one of the delights of being engaged is planning for a wedding, and one of the delights of planning for a wedding is choosing a photographer who will make you look the prettiest you're ever going to look on a day where you hardly even get to look at yourself.

We're knee deep in the middle of that process. One of the couples we're thinking about choosing made us fill out a questionaire about ourselves and our relationship. I guess they're so busy they can screen their clients based on how interesting they find them, must be nice. That said, I thought I'd share with you my answers to the questionaire in leiu of me rambling on about something else for a few more paragraphs. So without furthur ado:

h3. What were your thoughts and emotions about the other person on your first date?

p. I think most first dates, that aren't a trainwreck, are accompanied by a thought somewhere during the date that goes like this "She/He could be the one I marry." It's human nature to dream at that point, and a new relationship, like nothing else I've ever experienced, awakens a person to hope in the face of possibility. Most of the time, open ended, unknown possibility drives people to fear and then to comfort -- but not a new relationship.

h3. What do you love about her?

p. Two things out of dozens and dozens stick out. First, she's the most gracious person I've ever met. She doesn't carry with her the weight of unmet expectations and when she looks at me I know she loves me exactly as I am, and exactly as I will be in the future -- which is not a feeling I'm good at reciprocating always. Secondly, she's not me. I grew up wanting to marry someone similar to me, and it wasn't until I we were dating that I even realized this. In my mind our differences often explain the struggles I have with this thing or that, but as a man who consistently wants to be challenged to be a better man, there is not a women in this world who will balance me better as her.

h3. What is your favorite thing that you two do together?

p. Easy... road trips. I love long weekends, time spent with friends and family, and with four sets of parents in four different states we've had our fair share of travel -- but it's always been my favorite thing.

h3. Why are you getting married? Yes, we just asked that. Be for real. What deep down is it that pulls you to this commitment?

p. Two words. The Lord. I love the ideas, and dreaming, and possibility, and new situations, and freedom and for a long, long time, to this day even, marriage has never represented those things to me. But God saw fit to put in my heart a peace with it all and to speak words that I could not deny when all I wanted to do was pretend I didn't hear them. So for me, marriage is an act of obedience unto God. Is it something I'm excited for? Yes! Is it something I want to do? Yes of course! But those feelings have come only after listening and obeying what it was the Lord was telling me to do.

h3. If you had to walk away with only one photo from your wedding day, what would you envision that photo to be like and why?

p. I'm not sure what it would look like, but it would have everyone in it and it wouldn't be posed. For me the wedding is less about Madison and I and more about celebrating a) what the Lord's done and b) how everyone at the wedding played a part in getting us to that day. I want the guests who come to know that they're incredibly important to each of us, and that we're celebrating them as much as they're celebrating us.

h3. It's your wedding day and you are looking into each other's eyes for the first time. What are you feeling?

p. The pragmatist in me wants to say "I don't know" and leave it at that, but I'll try to play along. God chooses the strangest times in my life to bestow upon me new emotions. Rarely when I expect him to, does he move my heart in the direction I expect him to move it. That said, I think that moment will feel natural, where natural does not mean normal, it means natural. I think it'll feel like the next step, the right thing, the correct progression, however you want to phrase it. I'm not trying to say it'll be exactly what I expect it to be, but that whatever it is, it'll just feel right.

h3. Why have you chosen the wedding venue you have? Please tell us some of the details you envision for the day and 3 words that you want your wedding day to feel like.

p. Simply, I envision it as a celebration of the Lord, of us, and of our friends and family. That said I want there to be an atmosphere of <b>reverence</b> where we remember what has happened to bring us all together. I'd also like it to be <b>celebratory</b>, not a formality and not a tradition, but more like a back yard end of summer bar-b-que where everyone celebrates the end of one season and the start of a new. Finally......... er... um... I think those two words encompass it all.

h3. Attach your favorite photograph you have as a couple &amp; explain why this is your favorite.

p. "Here it is.":http://www.facebook.com/photo.php?fbid=101218119704&amp;set=fp.7961667.32605514&amp;type=1&amp;theater
Now I know that's a completely unassuming photograph, but for me it represents the very first time I showed up at a party in hopes that I would get a few minutes of face time with her. Turns out we spent most of the party talking to each other, and this is the only photo that documents that day.
